VI President Joe Biden says he's going
to stop the supply of weapons to Israel
if it launches an allout attack on Rafa
now for weeks Washington has been
pressuring Israel's prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu not to send forces
into the city Heidi Joe Castro reports
from Washington DC it's it's just wrong
the US president said for the first time
in an interview with us media on
Wednesday that US military aid to Israel
will be conditioned on the Israeli
military's actions and acknowledged that
us weapons are being used to kill
civilians in Gaza civilians have been
killed in Gaza as a consequence of those
bombs they go into Rafa I'm not
supplying the weapons that have been
used historically to deal with Rafa I've
made it clear to BB in the war cabinet
they're not going to get our support if
in fact they go on these population
centers the major shift in position from
Joe Biden who has previously pledged
unconditional support for Israel was
foreshadowed by a recent delay in
providing us bombs to Israel the US
defense secretary told a senate panel
the delivery was paused due to concerns
about Israel's plans to invade Rafa
Israel shouldn't launch a a major attack
in arfa without accounting for uh and
protecting the civilians that are in
that battle space uh and and again as we
have uh assessed the situation uh we
paused one shipment of high high uh uh
payload uh Munitions Biden has faced
increased ing pressure from protesters
who have demonstrated ins solidarity
with Palestinians across American
college campuses and in Chicago where he
made a campaign stop on Wednesday Biden
has also faced calls from Progressive
members of his own party to end Israel's
unconditional military aid Congressional
leaders offered a muted response to the
delayed arm shipment I uh believe that
Israel and America have an ironclad
relationship and I uh have faith in what
the Biden Administration is doing I
continue to express my concern to the
administration that the delay of
shipment of weapons to Israel is just
another way of trying to tell an ally
how to conduct the war Biden says the US
will still provide Israel with defensive
weapons and the US defense secretary
says the US Israeli Alliance remains
Ironclad but a major ground invasion of
Rafa would be seen by the us as a red
line and Biden says Israel Crossing it
would be quote just wrong Heidi Joe
Castro Al jazer
Washington well prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has shut down Al jaz's
operations so our correspondents are now
reporting from outside Israel muhamad
Jam jum is joining us from the Jordanian
Capital Aman so but let's talk first of
all uh more about this Threat by Joe
Biden to block weapons if there is any
action in Rafa what's the Israeli
response to that so so
far so Rob we've not yet heard anything
official from Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu but we are seeing a
lot of quotes attributed to Anonymous
defense officials members of the
security establishment in Israel they
are appearing in Israeli Publications
and media Outlets the last few hours and
these officials are expressing a lot of
concern about what this means going
forward they're concerned about how this
might affect Israel's preparedness uh
when it comes to the war in Gaza as well
as conflicts on other fronts going
forward also these defense officials are
telling these Israeli media Outlets that
they are worried about what this means
about the state of the relationship
between Israel and the United States uh
some of these officials are saying that
Israel's adversaries May perceive this
particular crisis as an opportunity to
undermine Israel uh then there are other
defense officials that are saying that
um some senior defense officials are
telling counterparts in the government
that the government really needs to
start heeding the warnings of the
Americans because they are very worried
that this could be a major fracture in
the relationship and they don't know
quite what that means for Israel going
forward now beyond that just in the past
10 minutes or so we are seeing that
Israeli far right-wing national security
minister itar bin gavier tweeted that
Hamas loves Biden this clearly in
response to that interview that Joe
Biden gave and the decision to Halt
weapon shipment if uh Israel were to
continue going into ra beyond that
you've had the head of the opposition in
Israel yir lepid who has responded to
that tweet by itar bin gav leid has said
every Israeli is in danger if Netanyahu
doesn't fire itar bin gavier today so
clearly you can see that the right-wing
in Israel far right-wing ministers they
are very angry about Biden's decision
and about the Hal of weapons the defense
establishment is very concerned about
what this means for the uh for Israel
going forward and the relationship with
the US and now you have members of the
opposition who are Furious that itar bin
gavier would tweet something so
incendiary saying Hamas loves Biden
indicating that essentially Hamas is
very happy that Biden decided to stop
weapon shipment to Israel and of course
in the in the background to all of this
Muhammad the talks are continuing in
Cairo there's been a lot of speculation
around these talks over the last uh few
days um from your perspective or where
you are what's the interpretation of
where things lie with
those well that's very much an open
question at this hour obviously it
continues to be a very complicated
situation there are so many
contradictory reports throughout the
Israeli media media landscape and
throughout uh other uh uh media
landscapes in the region other reports
um you have reports emanating out of
Cairo that the gaps are narrowing you
have reports in Israel saying that major
gaps remain and that Israel continues to
maintain that what has been presented to
them as far as the proposal that Hamas
has accepted that that crosses all the
red lines when it comes to Israel look
it is complicated uh the devil is very
much in the details uh the CIA Chief
William Burns was in Israel yesterday he
met with prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu he met with other members of
the security establishment it's being
reported in Israeli media that burns
said to his counterparts that this
should not be considered to be an end to
the war that this should con be
considered to be a pause to the war that
it should be a positive development and
that further actions can be negotiated
after that um but when you look at
articles emanating out of Israel
especially when they're quoting
right-wing politicians um they are
saying that red lines very much still
remain and there seems to be a lot of
skepticism by members of the right-wing
Coalition of the government that this
can actually be achieved nonetheless
Bill Burns uh is back in Cairo now the
talks are continuing the Israeli
delegation is in Cairo the Hamas
delegation is in Cairo other delegations
are in Cairo so we'll just have to wait
and see as to how this developed going
forward Rob Muhammad Jam jum in Aman
Muhammad thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz